[Music]
okay it's the one plus nine
i've been using this phone for a little
bit over a month and it was actually the
phone that i put my sim card into
right from the beginning when the review
units came the nine and the nine pro
i put it into the nine because i thought
that this would be the device that i'd
be switching over to
instead of the nine pro i like the flat
screen the upgraded camera system
i thought that this would be my phone
for this year and there's a lot to like
about it it truly is a great
phone in a lot of ways but it does have
a
fairly large deficiency in the camera
system which we'll get into in a second
so let's get into the stuff i like about
it first so i really like this display
flat screen it gets more than bright
enough in fact i actually find it quite
difficult to tell
the difference between the 9 and the 9
pro in terms of how bright they get
same with the touch sampling rate 9 pro
goes to 360 hertz this is at 240
both super responsive i feel like the
difference is almost imperceptible
in terms of the resolution it's a 1080p
panel so you can tell the difference
between this
and a 1440p screen if you look for it
but i think
at this price point 730 us dollars most
people are gonna love
this display the speakers are good
they're stereo and they sound just like
the nine pro speakers to me they're not
like
gamer phone good but they're good now in
terms of battery life
4 500 milliamp hour battery that was
comfortably getting seven
seven and a half hours of screen on time
every time i charge this thing the one
thing i noticed though is that i'm
getting more consistent battery life on
this than the nine pro and i think it's
because it's
1080p screen doesn't have ltpo so you're
just
your battery life is more reliable on
your everyday use whereas if you
you know if you're just staring at
websites on this thing you can extend it
a lot longer because it can drop down
the refresh rate but on this
it's more consistent the super fast 65
vr chargers included in the box but the
wireless charging capabilities is
reduced a little bit on the 9. so
the 9 pro has a 50 watt wireless
charging capability this only has 15
it's like a more
standard somewhat semi-fast wireless
charging
i'm perfectly happy with it i feel like
you'd have to have some very demanding
needs to really need
that 50 watt wireless charging but i
think the overall hardware
on the 9 is pretty solid right but
because it's oneplus
being the new oneplus they gotta just
they gotta get one in so let's talk
about the cameras
so i was convinced that the camera
system
on the nine would be at least as good as
the one in the 8 pro
because it's the same sensor right and
it's got the new hasselblad partnership
with new software
and well let's just get right into it
for whatever reason
the oneplus 9 does not have optical
image stabilization
on the main sensor it's the weirdest
thing it's a very unfortunate thing so
what is oas and why is it important
right
it's a hardware feature that moves the
sensor and the lens around
physically inside to compensate for your
hand when it's moving around taking
pictures where you want your hand
or you want the sensor to be as still as
possible when you're taking pictures
now in perfect lighting conditions it
doesn't make a difference it's
a quick shutter there's no difference
right but if you have any kind of
tougher shooting condition or you're
trying to catch something quickly or
you're
taking a picture something that's moving
it's very noticeable
and i am shocked that they've removed it
on the oneplus 9
basically every oneplus flagship has had
ois for years
and they removed it on this device
this is a 730 phone this isn't like
their super cheap nord lineup this is
for all intents and purposes a flagship
device from oneplus
and it's gone and it really makes a
difference especially in low light
photos the images are just
softer than they should be and then
combine it with the fact that there's a
bit of
shutter delay right now it's a software
issue that we've talked about in several
videos but
even if they fix that there's something
about the lack of ois
that makes me feel like this isn't as
good of a camera system
as it should be it really should be
better because
look at the price point of this thing in
fact i wouldn't be surprised
if this was the world's most expensive
phone that doesn't have ois
like what other phone that's 730 dollars
does not have optical image
stabilization like legitimately it's
strange for it not to have it now the
software otherwise
is great the hasselblad partnership has
great colors for more realistic looking
images
and better skin tones and the ultrawide
sensor is also really good it's just
like the oneplus 9 pro
nice clean distortion-free images i like
the ultrawide
i like the colors but the lack of ois
straight up sucks and same with the zoom
lens right but not having a zoom in here
but
leaving behind the black and white
camera it's just
for them for one plus the cost of
switching out that
black and white camera for zoom lens
would have been so inexpensive
and the user experience had been so much
better but they do it because like this
right you know why they do it it's like
why upgrade the nine pro
when you just downgrade the nine to make
the nine pro look better
it's the classic upsell okay uh now i
don't want to take away
from the best feature of oneplus phones
really
it's their software it's what drew me to
the brand in the first place and even to
this day it's just
so much better than any other android
offerings to me it's clean with a lot of
extra functionality which i value
i do hope though that they continue to
support their older devices in a more
timely manner i feel like they've kind
of dropped the ball over the past
year and their older devices aren't as
well supported as they have been in the
past but
overall i still think that they have the
best software in the game
now the real question is do i write do i
still recommend this phone
730 no ois plastic frame
no zoom is it still a good phone yes it
is
it just it sucks to see oneplus doing
this like
strategic and like tactical removal of
features
to upsell the oneplus 9 pro i hate
seeing it like clearly they're doing it
for profit right by removing that stuff
this guy looks that much better it looks
that much more appropriately priced
but i just
i just don't like it it's weird uh and i
don't think
other companies do it as aggressively as
oneplus
because the removal of oas that's
serious man
that's no one else has done that yet
okay that's the video hope you guys
enjoyed it thumbs if you liked it subs
if you loved it
see you guys next time